[Music]
by oldest the warmer temperatures are
now the colony to break up winter has
taken its toll and the males have lost
half their body weight
[Music]
they're also left holding the baby these
newly hatched chicks can expect very
little from their fathers after four
months of fasting
there is nothing solid in a male stomach
but he is able to produce a protein
which secretion but that is very enough
to keep a chicken idly weak fattened up
from two months fishing the females
reappear with magically accurate timing
[Music]
in such a crowd calling is the best way
to locate a partner
[Applause]
[Music]
a female arrives to take over at first
the male is a little reluctant to
abandon his offspring once the exchange
starts it needs to be quick a few
minutes on the ice would almost
certainly kill the chick now at last the
chick can feed properly
[Music]
[Applause]
during the next five months
an emperor chick will eat 100 kilos of
food in one big helping it can eat a
third of its own body weight
[Music]
now at last their fathers have a chance
to eat but the ice edge may be several
hundred kilometers away emperor penguins
have a faster mode of transport than
just plain walking bacon toboggan
[Music]
from now on males and females will take
turns to go fishing
each trip may involve traveling
thousands of kilometres in search of
food
[Music]
the battlefields enormous its size makes
the polar bear a perpetual nomad
trekking 15 miles a day and up to five
thousand a year on ice that's constantly
moving our story starts down there in
the ice and snow it's spring and a new
life is about to see daylight for the
first time but not until this female
tests the air she's been holed up for
nearly six months and she doesn't know
what's out there now there could be
danger and she has something precious to
protect when she went into the den last
winter she was fifty percent heavier and
alone but she's not alone now she has a
car one cup
it's his first experience at the wider
world the first moments away from the
warm dark safety of the den he was born
in January just over three months ago
the world he came into was small and
cramped he had fur but his eyes were
closed he wasn't any bigger than a
guinea pig
the cameras have captured other animals
scavenging Rivera's kill sable a type of
weasel eat whatever they find Eagles and
even wild boar benefit from Tiger killed
in winter and then Vivaro makes her
entrance
ah look at that daytime as well
[Music]
this looks great let's look how
conscious is she's smelling where you
guys were she still looks quite young I
mean she's a funny and she is she that
she does look good doesn't she's but
she's a she's a good shape great
and the other camera we had here don't
tell me that in fire
[Music]
to see the markings like that it's this
nice isn't isn't it yeah yeah that's
nice but where the cups I mean well we
didn't actually get to the site where
the culture stash and she didn't bring
him down through here unfortunately so
we missed that opportunity collectively
with the radio collar the camera traps
in these videos we've gotten a much
better understanding of the way mothers
interact and take care of their Cubs up
until this point we had always thought
that females would leave their cubs at a
kill site and then go off hunting and
then go back to the kill site get the
Cubs and bring it to the new kill but
we've seen in this video right here they
don't leave their cubs at the kills and
that makes sense because that's a
dangerous spot we've seen through these
camera traps all these other carnivores
coming through Lynx and sable and what
even wild boar coming in so it's
actually a dangerous place to leave your
Cubs so she takes them off someplace and
we don't even really realize that until
we started getting some of this footage
the Siberian tiger is one of the world's
most endangered animals footage like
this is invaluable
[Music]
only by studying this remarkable animals
natural behavior can scientists learn
how to protect it and while we haven't
seen the Cubs
it looks like Guevara has got over her
camera shyness wolves can have up to 10
pups in a litter I'm desperate to find
out if there are more hidden in the den
but before I can move closer the whole
pack returns from a hunt it's way too
soon for me to approach with all of them
around so I'm going to try the next best
thing
yeah this has never been used before
with wolves in fact this has never been
used before with any animal it's very
much a prototype baiser a rock crawler
and handle this rugged terrain and it's
fitted with two little HD cameras that
I'm hoping to drive up this slope and go
good look at a day and two potential
problems the terrain is really difficult
but the real danger is that they wolves
don't take too kindly to this and rip it
to pieces it's designed to handle the
terrain but not a pack of 6 wolves we'll
see
[Music]
okay I see a move I'm a bit concerned
over the interest the rules are sure
[Music]
[Applause]
okay there's a bit of difficulty moving
you see if we're gonna nudge it forward
oh dear it's all part of a learning
process and I've learned that there's
part of the day and up there on the
right it's the bit with the buggy
sticking out of it I might still get a
view inside the den I found a hole after
a lot of maneuvering I get the picture I
was hoping for Shh oh I can see a pop I
can see a pup amazingly looking straight
into the camera these rules are
incredible they have never seen this
kind of thing before and they don't
scurry back into the day
oh my word that is just glorious or your
beauty to pups oh wow they are just
adorable
these pups were born deaf and blind but
now their senses are developing and
they're starting to explore the world
around them
I'd like a the poppers to come and
investigate it they're looking at it
they're about four weeks old and the
first teeth are coming through
[Music]
this was an unbelievably really are
three pops gee whiz I do not believe it
[Music]
Wow fillers ever right in there now I'm
actually member of the pack
is great of lovingness
a young fox on these barren wastes may
have to travel a hundred kilometers a
day searching for food
scratching for scraps and scavenging
from others it's a meager existence and
the worst of the winter is still to come
by midwinter temperatures drop to minus
50 degrees Celsius and deep snow makes
scavenging nearly impossible
[Music]
but a faint sound beneath the snow maybe
this fox is salvation' lemmings it's
time to become a hunter but catching
what you can't see is not easy it's hard
to judge the leap and the depth of the
snow
[Music]
too deep and you get stuck
to shallow and it can be rather painful
it's going to take time but mastering
lemming hunting is vital if a young fox
is to make it through the winter
[Music]
at last this fox is on his way
but if he is to survive until spring
he'll need to make a catch like this
every couple of days
[Music]
[Applause]